---
layout: post
title: Learning D3JS
---

Here is a work in progress blog post on my experience learning D3JS from scratch (with some background in making plots in python, matlab, and very little knowledge of HTML from making presentations in reveal.js)

# Why learn D3JS?

Here's a short justification on why I am spending time learning D3JS, mostly it is just for fun but here it goes: 

If you google the term "D3JS" you will find that it is a javascript lirbary for producing graphs/plots in web browsers, so thats tells you D3JS is use for making plots on websites. Now for my academic projects I mostly make plots either in python using [matplotlib])(https://matplotlib.org) (using some little helper functions I wrote in a package called [sciplotlib](https://github.com/Timothysit/sciplotlib) or in matlab using their in-built libraries.

What's the advantage of making plots on a website then? The way I see it / my personal use case are (1) I want some plots that needs to be updated automatically that I can check on no matter where I am - eg. on my phone, on a random computer with access to the browser, though technically this can also be done by writing some code locally on my computer then updates a plot connected to eg. Dropbox. (2) some plots that I can interact with (3) some pltos that I want to share with other people online.





# Books and websites

 - Observable : https://observablehq.com/tutorials
 


# Using D3JS for self-quantification

<iframe width="100%" height="384" frameborder="0"
  src="https://observablehq.com/embed/@timothysit/self-quantification?cells=linePlot"></iframe>

# Using D3JS to track the progress of my code

 - TODO: write about making a website to read the facemap progress CSV and then plot the progress.
